README.md, before:

# Lab 2 of CS263: Cyber Security

My code for lab 2, completing the code for a simple web server. It allows users to register, login and logout using a database. The users' passwords are hashed using pbkdf2 with a salt unique to the user and a global configuration defining the number of iterations and key size.

# Ex4

Implemented `LoginController.register` which:

1. Generates a 16 byte salt from a cryptographically-secure pseudo-random number generator
1. Gets the number of iterations and key size from the global pbkdf2 configuration
1. Generates the hashed password using pbkdf2
1. Adds the newly generated user to the database

# Ex5

Implemented `LoginController.authenticate` which:

1. Looks up the username in the database and denies access if it is not in it
1. Generates password hash based on entered password and original configuration (salt, number of iterations, key size). It denies access if this does not match the saved password hash
1. Grants access if it has not already denied it

# Ex6

Implemented `LoginController.rehashPassword` and called it from `LoginController.authenticate`. If the global security configuration (number of iterations, key size) has changed, it:

1. Rehashes the password with this new configuration
1. Stores the updated password hash with the configuration in the database under that user

# Extra Features

I also added the following features:

- Added configuration for salt length so we can increase this if necessary as well as the key length and number of iterations
- Added configurations for minimum password strength so the users have to choose sufficiently strong passwords, requirements:
    - At least 8 characters
    - At least 1 lowercase letter
    - At least 1 uppercase letter
    - At least 1 number
    - At least 1 symbol

Commit message:

Ex7: Captured password in post request

README.md, after:

# Lab 2 of CS263: Cyber Security

My code for lab 2, completing the code for a simple web server. It allows users to register, login and logout using a database. The users' passwords are hashed using pbkdf2 with a salt unique to the user and a global configuration defining the number of iterations and key size.

# Ex4

Implemented `LoginController.register` which:

1. Generates a 16 byte salt from a cryptographically-secure pseudo-random number generator
1. Gets the number of iterations and key size from the global pbkdf2 configuration
1. Generates the hashed password using pbkdf2
1. Adds the newly generated user to the database

# Ex5

Implemented `LoginController.authenticate` which:

1. Looks up the username in the database and denies access if it is not in it
1. Generates password hash based on entered password and original configuration (salt, number of iterations, key size). It denies access if this does not match the saved password hash
1. Grants access if it has not already denied it

# Ex6

Implemented `LoginController.rehashPassword` and called it from `LoginController.authenticate`. If the global security configuration (number of iterations, key size) has changed, it:

1. Rehashes the password with this new configuration
1. Stores the updated password hash with the configuration in the database under that user

# Ex7

Captured packets using Wireshark on the relevant port while registering on the website. The HTTP POST request from the first captured packet is given in `PacketCapture.txt` showing the captured password was `mypasswordA5&` (because of the minimum password requirements).

# Extra Features

I also added the following features:

- Added configuration for salt length so we can increase this if necessary as well as the key length and number of iterations
- Added configurations for minimum password strength so the users have to choose sufficiently strong passwords, requirements:
    - At least 8 characters
    - At least 1 lowercase letter
    - At least 1 uppercase letter
    - At least 1 number
    - At least 1 symbol
